Installation
------------

0. Introduction

The Half-Life Booking system (HLB) is an open source application written in PHP
and Perl.  Its designed to turn servers into "time shares" that clans can use
for matching,practices,tryouts, etc.

I started writing HLB because I was getting emails everyday from poeple
asking to use my public servers for clan matches/practices.  After some
bad experiences letting regular clans use rcon on the pubs I set out
to write a booking application.

To get help, visit http://hlb.playway.net

1. How it works.

HLB is actually composed of theee different applications.

Web Interface 	- The user interface to HLB
HLBook		- controls setting up the servers, runs out of crond	
HLogd		- server log clearing house

When a user books a match from the web interface the information is placed
into the backend database.  When the match is ready to become active, HLBook
contacts the server and issues the setup commands.  It changes the server hostname,
the server password, the server config file, and last the map, kicking all connected
players if any.  At this point, the booking is considered "In Progress".  Your server
should always sent its server logs to the HLogd process.  Hlogd will open a file
and store the logs until the booking is "Closed", at which point it zips them up and
moves them in place for users to download.

When a booking is closed, the server will default back to its "Mode" settings.  For 24/7
bookable servers, the only mode they'll be in is "bookable" mode.   With HLB, you
can also run part time bookable/private/public/offline servers.  Example.  If you wanted
the server to be public from Midnight to Noon, then private from Noon to 6pm, then bookable
for 6 hours from 6pm to Midnight, you can do that.  HLBook will handle it all for you,
setting new passwords, new rcon pass, etc.

2.  Getting the beast installed

If you are unfamiliar to Linux then there is probably now way your going to get
this version of HLB installed.  We are working on an installer program that should
make things a lot easier in the future but this version is more of a "manual" type
install.  Not to mention, HLB has ALOT of dependencies that need to be installed 
and running before you can use HLB.

You will need:

Apache (tested with 2.x and 1.3.x)
PHP 4.2.2+ (tested on 4.2.2,4.2.3, and 4.3.0 w/GD 2.X + sockets)
MySQL 3.23.54+ (since all below have exploit)
Perl  (tested with 5.6.1 and 5.8.0)

Perl Modules: (I bundled a few just in case)
DBI/DBD-MySQL of course + all dependencies
Config::INI
Net::Telnet

3.  The tarball

These instructions are going to be really really brief.

First, untar/gz the hlbook tarball.  It will create an hlbook directory.  FROM
HERE ON OUT, I'M GOING TO CALL IT HLROOT.  So, if I write cd HLROOT/scripts, then
you know what to do.

4.  SQL Table schema.

The SQL schema is in HLROOT/conf/hlbook.sql.  In case you forgot, you'll need
to create a database for hlbook as well as a username and password.  Then you
do to install the the hlbook tables:

mysql -u hlbook -p hlbook_db < hlbook.sql

5.  PHPStep Setup 

PHPStep is a toolkit writtin in PHP designed by Playway.net for rapid website 
development.  A recent somewhat stable CVS version of PHPStep comes bundled with 
HLBook.  Getting  PHPStep setup is pretty easy.  All the settings are in the 
HLROOT/webdocs/index.php file. Open that file and start editing.   There are 
some instructions in that file.

6.  HLBook Web Interface Setup

Once you have PHPStep configured, then the pages should be coming up.  Login using the
default admin username and password which happen to be: 

username: admin 
password: fool69

After logging in, click on the "OPTIONS" button on the main toolbar.  Now, in the menu
on the left, click setup.  Here is where the rest of the site feature setup stuff
is located.   You can mess with it now or deal with it later.

7. HLBook & HLogd

These are the two apps that make things happen.  HLBook doing the booking and HLogd
collecting logs and hopefully keeping track of rcon, connected players, and log files.

First open HLROOT/scripts/hlbook/hlbook.ini and edit the settings. There are comments
in the file.  After tha you'll need to edit HLROOT/scripts/hlogd/hlogd.ini and enter
in most of the same settings.  Both of these apps need to talk to the DB server as well
as eachother and the same servers.

8. Starting them up.

HLBook is a crond job.  There is a crond.sh script in the hlbook dir.  All you do is
add it to your users crontab to run every minute.  You could do like

crontab -e

then add:
*/1 * * * *	/home/me/hlbook-0.99-openbeta/scripts/hlbook/crond.sh

then save and close.  HLBook writes a log file

Staring HLogd is a little easier.  You pretty much just execute it and it will
background itself.


9. So, now you have all the pieces running and hopefully configured right.  Now its
time to use the web interface, add some servers, book some servers, etc.  Go ahead
and give it a try.

If you have problems, questions, feature requests, etc, visit http://hlb.playway.net
